Utah Code


    Effective 9/1/2024
                                               Part 2
                            Calculation and Adjustment of Child Support

    81-6-201 Definitions for part.
       Reserved.

    Enacted by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-202 Determination of amount of child support -- Application of child support guidelines
    -- Requirements for child support order.
    (1)
      (a) If a prior child support order does not exist, a substantial change in circumstances has
           occurred, or a petition to modify a child support order as described in Section 81-6-212 is
           filed, the court determining the amount of prospective child support shall require each party
           to file a proposed award of child support using the child support guidelines before the court
           enters or modifies a child support order.
      (b) When no prior child support order exists, the court or administrative agency shall determine
           and assess all arrearages based upon the child support guidelines.
    (2)
      (a) The court or administrative agency shall apply the child support guidelines as a rebuttable
           presumption in establishing or modifying the amount of temporary or permanent child support.
      (b) The rebuttable presumption means the provisions and considerations required by the child
           support guidelines, the award amounts resulting from the application of the child support
           guidelines, and the use of worksheets consistent with the child support guidelines are
           presumed to be correct, unless the child support guidelines are rebutted in accordance with
           this section.
    (3)
      (a) A written finding or specific finding on the record supporting the conclusion that complying
           with a provision of the child support guidelines or ordering an award amount resulting from
           use of the child support guidelines would be unjust, inappropriate, or not in the best interest of
           a child in a particular case is sufficient to rebut the presumption in that case.
      (b) If an order rebuts the presumption through findings, the order is considered a deviated order.
    (4) The following are considered deviations from the child support guidelines, if:
      (a) the order includes a written finding that the order is a deviation from the child support
           guidelines;
      (b) the worksheet has:
        (i) the box checked for a deviation; and
        (ii) an explanation as to the reason; or
      (c) the deviation is made because there were more children than provided for in the child support
           tables.
    (5) If the amount in the order and the amount on the worksheet differ by $10 or more:
      (a) the order is considered deviated; and
      (b) the incomes listed on the worksheet may not be used in adjusting support for emancipation as
           described in Section 81-6-213.
    (6) If the court finds sufficient evidence to rebut the guidelines as described in Subsection (3), the
        court shall establish child support after considering all relevant factors, including:



                                                    Page 1
Utah Code


      (a) the standard of living and situation of the parties;
      (b) the relative wealth and income of the parties;
      (c) the ability of the obligor to earn;
      (d) the ability of the obligee to earn;
      (e) the ability of an incapacitated adult child to earn, or other benefits received by the adult child
           or on the adult child's behalf including Supplemental Security Income;
      (f) the needs of the obligee, the obligor, and the child;
      (g) the ages of the parties; and
      (h) the responsibilities of the obligor and the obligee for the support of others.
    (7)
      (a) If there are children of either parent who live in the home of that parent and are not children
           in common to both parties, the court or administrative agency, at the option of either party,
           may take into account the children under the child support guidelines in setting a base child
           support award as described in Subsection (8).
      (b) Additional worksheets shall be prepared that calculate the base child support award of the
           respective parents for the additional children.
      (c) The court or administrative agency shall subtract the base child support award calculated
           under Subsection (7)(b) from the appropriate parent's income before determining the award in
           the case described in Subsection (7)(a).
    (8) In a proceeding to adjust or modify a child support order, the court or administrative agency
        may consider children, who are born after the entry of the child support order and are not in
        common to both parties, to mitigate an increase in the award, but the court or administrative
        agency may not consider the children:
      (a) for the benefit of the obligee if the credit would increase the support obligation of the obligor
           from the most recent child support order; or
      (b) for the benefit of the obligor if the amount of support received by the obligee would be
           decreased from the most recent child support order.
    (9) A stipulated amount for child support or combined child support and alimony is adequate under
        the child support guidelines if the stipulated child support amount or combined amount equals
        or exceeds the base child support award required by the child support guidelines.
    (10) The court shall include the following provisions in a child support order:
      (a) a provision establishing the monthly amount of child support obligation for each parent in
           accordance with the child support guidelines;
      (b) a provision assigning responsibility for the payment of reasonable and necessary medical
           expenses for the child as described in Section 81-6-208;
      (c) a provision requiring the purchase and maintenance of appropriate health care insurance for
           the medical expenses of the child as described in Section 81-6-208 if health care insurance is
           or becomes available at a reasonable cost;
      (d) a provision regarding the child care expenses as described in Section 81-6-209;
      (e) a provision regarding each parent's right to claim a child as a tax exemption for federal and
           state income tax purposes in accordance with Section 81-6-210;
      (f) provisions for income withholding as a means of collecting child support, in accordance with
           Title 26B, Chapter 9, Part 3, Income Withholding in IV-D Cases, and Title 26B, Chapter 9,
           Part 4, Income Withholding in Non IV-D Cases; and
      (g) a provision regarding a parent's opportunity to adjust a child support order as described in
           Section 81-6-212.
    (11) The office shall include the provisions described in Section 26B-9-224 in a child support order.



                                                   Page 2
Utah Code


    Amended by Chapter 155, 2026 General Session

    81-6-203 Determination of gross income for child support -- Imputing income to a parent.
    (1)
      (a) Each parent shall provide verification of current income to the court or administrative agency.
      (b) Each parent shall provide year-to-date pay stubs or employer statements and complete
           copies of tax returns from at least the most recent year, unless the court finds the verification
           is not reasonably available.
      (c) Verification of income from records maintained by the Department of Workforce Services may
           be substituted for pay stubs, employer statements, and income tax returns.
    (2)
      (a) To calculate gross income of a parent, the court or administrative agency may include:
        (i) prospective income of the parent, including income from earned and nonearned sources,
              such as salaries, wages, commissions, royalties, bonuses, rents, gifts from anyone,
              prizes, dividends, severance pay, pensions, interest, trust income, alimony from previous
              marriages, annuities, capital gains, Social Security benefits, worker compensation benefits,
              unemployment compensation, income replacement disability insurance benefits, Social
              Security Disability Insurance, and payments from nonmeans-tested government programs;
              and
        (ii) income imputed to the parent as described in Subsection (6).
      (b) Income from earned income sources is limited to the equivalent of one full-time 40-hour job.
      (c) If and only if during the time before the original support order, the parent normally and
           consistently worked more than 40 hours at the parent's job, the court may consider this extra
           time as a pattern in calculating the parent's ability to provide child support.
    (3)
      (a) The court or administrative agency shall use historical and current earnings to determine
           whether an underemployment or overemployment situation exists.
      (b) When establishing or modifying a child support order for an obligor who is a parent and
           incarcerated, the office shall follow the requirements of Section 81-6-211.5.
    (4)
      (a) To calculate income from self-employment or operation of a business, the court or
           administrative agency:
        (i) shall calculate gross income from self-employment or operation of a business by subtracting
              necessary expenses required for self-employment or business operation from gross
              receipts;
        (ii) shall review income and expenses from self-employment or operation of a business to
              determine an appropriate level of gross income available to the parent to satisfy a child
              support award; and
        (iii) may only deduct those expenses necessary to allow the business to operate at a
              reasonable level from gross receipts.
      (b) Gross income determined under this Subsection (4) may differ from the amount of business
           income determined for tax purposes.
    (5) When possible, the court or administrative agency shall determine the average monthly gross
        income for each parent by:
      (a) calculating the gross income of each parent on an annual basis; and
      (b) dividing the annual gross income for each parent by 12.
    (6)



                                                   Page 3
Utah Code


      (a) The court or administrative agency may not impute income to a parent unless the parent
           stipulates to the amount imputed, the parent defaults, or, in contested cases, a hearing is held
           and the court or administrative agency enters findings of fact as to the evidentiary basis for
           the imputation.
      (b) If income is imputed to a parent, the court or administrative agency shall base income upon
           employment potential and probable earnings considering, to the extent known:
        (i) employment opportunities;
        (ii) work history;
        (iii) occupation qualifications;
        (iv) educational attainment;
        (v) literacy;
        (vi) age;
        (vii) health;
        (viii) criminal record;
        (ix) other employment barriers and background factors; and
        (x) prevailing earnings and job availability for persons of similar backgrounds in the community.
      (c) If a parent has no recent work history or a parent's occupation is unknown, the court or
           administrative agency may impute an income to that parent at the federal minimum wage for
           a 40-hour work week.
      (d) To impute a greater or lesser income, the court or administrative agency shall enter specific
           findings of fact as to the evidentiary basis for the imputation.
      (e) The court or administrative agency may not impute income to a parent if any of the following
           conditions exist and the condition is not of a temporary nature:
        (i) the reasonable costs of child care for the parents' minor child approach or equal the amount
              of income the custodial parent can earn;
        (ii) a parent is physically or mentally unable to earn minimum wage;
        (iii) a parent is engaged in career or occupational training to establish basic job skills; or
        (iv) unusual emotional or physical needs of a child require the custodial parent's presence in
              the home.
    (7) Notwithstanding Subsection (2), the court or administrative agency may not include the
        following sources of income when calculating the gross income of a parent:
      (a) cash assistance provided under Title 35A, Chapter 3, Part 3, Family Employment Program;
      (b) benefits received under a housing subsidy program, the Job Training Partnership Act,
           Supplemental Security Income, Medicaid, SNAP benefits, or General Assistance;
      (c) other similar means-tested welfare benefits received by a parent;
      (d) the earned income of a child who is the subject of a child support award; or
      (e) except as otherwise provided in Subsection (8), the benefits to a child in the child's own right,
           such as Supplemental Security Income.
    (8)
      (a) The court or administrative agency shall credit, as child support, the amount of social security
           benefits received by a child due to the earnings of the parent on whose earning record the
           social security benefits are based by crediting the amount against the potential obligation of
           that parent.
      (b) The court or administrative agency may consider other unearned income of a child as income
           of a parent depending upon the circumstances of each case.

    Amended by Chapter 155, 2026 General Session



                                                   Page 4
Utah Code


    81-6-204 General provisions for calculating child support -- Determination of base combined
    child support obligation.
    (1) To calculate child support, the court or administrative agency shall determine the base
        combined child support obligation for the parents by:
      (a) except as provided in Subsection (3), adjusting the average monthly gross income for
           each parent by subtracting any alimony previously ordered and paid and any child support
           previously ordered for that parent;
      (b) adjusting the average monthly gross income for each parent by subtracting any credits
           deemed appropriate under Subsections 81-6-202(7) and (8);
      (c) combining the adjusted average monthly gross incomes for both parents; and
      (d) locating the base combined child support obligation in the base combined child support
           obligation table by finding:
        (i) the combined adjusted average monthly gross incomes of the parents in the table; and
        (ii) the total number of children in common to the parents.
    (2) The court or administrative agency may only use the income of the parents of the child to
        determine the base child support award.
    (3) The court or administrative agency may not subtract any alimony ordered in the pending
        proceeding from the gross incomes of the parents as described in Subsection (1)(a).
    (4) If there is no amount listed for the base combined child support obligation in the base combined
        child support obligation table, the base combined support obligation for the parents is $0.
    (5) Upon determining the base combined child support obligation, the court or administrative
        agency shall make additional calculations as described in Section 81-6-205, 81-6-206, or
        81-6-207 to determine the base child support award.
    (6)
      (a) Except as provided in Subsection (6)(b), the court may consider any amount that an
           incapacitated adult child can contribute to the child's support and use the amount to justify a
           reduction in the amount of support ordered.
      (b) If the case described in Subsection (6)(a) involves more than one child, the reduction may not
           be greater than the effect of reducing the total number of children by one.
    (7)
      (a) The base combined child support obligation table provides combined child support obligations
           for up to six children.
      (b) If a case involves more than six children, the court may add additional amounts to the base
           child support obligation shown in the base combined child support obligation table.
      (c) Unless rebutted by Subsection 81-6-202(3), the court or administrative agency may not order
           an amount less than the amount that would be ordered for up to six children.
    (8)
      (a) If the combined adjusted gross income exceeds the highest level specified in the base
           combined child support obligation table, the court shall order an appropriate and just amount
           of child support on a case-by-case basis, except that the court may not order an amount
           that is less than the highest level specified in the table for the number of children due child
           support.
      (b) There is no maximum limit on the base child support award that a court may order using the
           child support tables.
    (9) The amount shown in a child support table is the child support amount for the total number of
        children not an amount per child.
    (10) For all worksheets, income and child support award figures are rounded to the nearest dollar.



                                                  Page 5
Utah Code


    Enacted by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-205 Sole physical custody -- Obligation calculations -- Change in physical custody.
    (1) This section applies to a case in which a parent, or another person, is awarded sole physical
        custody of the children.
    (2) Except as provided in Subsections (3) and (4), the court or administrative agency shall
        determine the base child support award for each parent by:
      (a) dividing each parent's monthly adjusted gross income by the combined monthly adjusted
           gross income to determine each parent's percentage; and
      (b) multiplying each parent's percentage by the base combined child support obligation that is
           calculated as described in Subsection 81-6-204(1).
    (3)
      (a) If the base combined child support obligation is $0, the court or administrative agency shall
           establish the base child support award for each parent by:
        (i) determining the individual monthly adjusted gross income for the parent;
        (ii) locating the amount of the base child support award in the low income table by finding:
           (A) the monthly adjusted gross income for the parent in the low income table; and
           (B) the number of children in common with the parents.
      (b) The corresponding amount in the low income table is the base child support award for that
           parent.
    (4)
      (a) If a parent's individual monthly adjusted gross income is less than the highest amount of
           monthly adjusted gross income shown in the low income table, the court or administrative
           agency shall determine that the base child support award is the lesser of:
        (i) the amount calculated using the base combined child support obligation table as described in
              Subsection (2); and
        (ii) the amount calculated using the low income table as described in Subsection (3).
      (b) If the monthly adjusted gross income of a parent is found in an area of the low income table in
           which no amount is shown, the court or administrative agency shall determine the base child
           support award by using the amount listed in the base combined child support obligation table
           and calculated as described in Subsection (2).
    (5) A base child support award in a sole physical custody case may not be less than $30.
    (6) The amounts calculated under this section are rebuttable as described in Section 81-6-202.
    (7) A parent without sole physical custody of the children is an obligor and is required to pay the
        amount of child support calculated under this section.
    (8)
      (a) When physical custody of a child changes after the original child support order, the parent
           without physical custody of the child is required to pay the amount of child support calculated
           under this section, without the need to modify the order, to:
        (i) the parent who has physical custody of the child;
        (ii) a relative to whom physical custody of the child has been voluntarily given; or
        (iii) the state when the child is residing outside of the home in the protective custody, temporary
              custody, or care of the state or a state-licensed facility for at least 30 days.
      (b) When physical custody of a child changes from the physical custody that is assumed in
           the original child support order calculated under this section, the modification of the child
           support order is not necessary even if only one parent is specifically ordered to pay in the
           child support order.



                                                   Page 6
Utah Code


    Enacted by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-206 Joint physical custody -- Obligation calculations.
    (1) This section applies to a case in which the parents are awarded joint physical custody of the
        children.
    (2) If the base combined child support obligation that is calculated as described in Subsection
        81-6-204(1) is $0, the base child support award for each parent is $0.
    (3) If the base combined child support obligation that is calculated as described in Subsection
        81-6-204(1) is greater than $0, the court or administrative agency shall determine each parent's
        share of the base combined child support obligation by:
      (a) dividing each parent's monthly adjusted gross income by the combined monthly adjusted
           gross income to determine each parent's percentage; and
      (b) multiplying each parent's percentage by the base combined child support obligation.
    (4) The court or administrative agency shall determine the base child support award for the parent
        with the lesser number of overnights by:
      (a) multiplying the number of overnights over 110 and under 131 for that parent by .0027;
      (b) multiplying the number calculated under Subsection (4)(a) by the base combined child
           support obligation;
      (c) multiplying the number of overnights over 130 for that parent by .0084;
      (d) multiplying the number calculated under Subsection (4)(c) by the base combined child
           support obligation; and
      (e) subtracting the numbers calculated in Subsections (4)(b) and (4)(d) from that parent's share
           of the base combined child support obligation calculated under Subsection (3).
    (5) If the base child support award calculated under Subsection (4) is greater than $0, the parent
        with the lesser number of overnights is the obligor and is required to pay child support.
    (6) If the base child support award calculated under Subsection (4) is less than $0:
      (a) the parent with the lesser number of overnights is the obligee; and
      (b) the parent with the greater number of overnights is the obligor and is required to pay child
           support.
    (7) If the parents have an equal parent-time schedule under Section 81-9-305, the amount of time
        to be spent with the parent who has the lower monthly adjusted gross income is considered 183
        overnights, regardless of whether the parent receives 182 overnights or 183 overnights under
        the equal parent-time schedule.

    Enacted by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-207 Split physical custody -- Obligation calculations.
    (1) This section applies to a case in which the parents are awarded split physical custody of the
        children.
    (2) If the base combined child support obligation that is calculated as described in Subsection
        81-6-204(1) is $0, the base child support award for each parent is $0.
    (3) If the base combined child support obligation that is calculated as described in Subsection
        81-6-204(1) is greater than $0, the court shall determine the base child support award by:
      (a) dividing the number of children with each parent by the combined number of children to
           calculate each parent's percentage of children;
      (b) dividing each parent's monthly adjusted gross income by the combined monthly adjusted
           gross income to calculate each parent's percentage of the combined monthly adjusted gross
           income;


                                                 Page 7
Utah Code


      (c) multiplying each parent's percentage of the combined monthly adjusted gross income by the
          base combined child support obligation to calculate each parent's share of the base combined
          child support obligation;
      (d) multiplying each parent's share of the base combined child support obligation by the other
          parent's percentage of children to determine the individual child support obligations for each
          parent; and
      (e) subtracting the lesser individual child support obligation from the higher individual child
          support obligation to reach the base child support award.
    (4) The parent with the higher individual child support obligation is the parent required to pay the
        base child support award calculated under Subsection (3).

    Enacted by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-208 Requirements for a child support order regarding medical expenses --
    Determination of parental liability for medical expenses.
    (1) As used in this section, "health insurance" means the same as that term is defined in Section
        31A-1-301.
    (2) Except as provided in Subsection (4), a child support order issued or modified in this state on or
        after May 3, 2023, shall require compliance with the requirements described in Subsection (3)
        as of the effective date of the child support order.
    (3) A child support order shall:
      (a) require the parents provide health care coverage for the medical expenses of a child;
      (b) require the parents provide health insurance for the medical expenses of a child if health
          insurance is available to the parents at a reasonable cost;
      (c) designate which health insurance plan is primary and which health insurance plan is
          secondary if, at any time, a child is covered by both parents' health insurance plans as
          described in Subsection (7);
      (d) require each parent to share equally the out-of-pocket costs of the premium actually paid by a
          parent for the child's portion of health insurance; and
      (e) include a provision that requires each parent to equally share all reasonable and necessary
          uninsured and unreimbursed medical and dental expenses incurred for a child, including co-
          payments, co-insurance, and deductibles.
    (4) The court may deviate from the requirements described in Subsection (3) if:
      (a) the court makes specific findings establishing good cause for the deviation; or
      (b) subject to the court's approval, the parents agree which parent shall provide health insurance
          for the child.
    (5) In determining whether to take the action described in Subsection (4), the court may consider:
      (a) the reasonableness of the cost;
      (b) the availability of a group insurance policy;
      (c) the coverage of the policy; or
      (d) the preference of the custodial parent.
    (6) Subject to Subsection (4), if a child support order does not contain the requirements described
        in Subsection (3):
      (a) the parents are nonetheless subject to the requirements described in Subsection (3), as
          applicable; and
      (b) for purposes of Subsection (3)(c), the health insurance plan of the parent whose birthday
          falls first in the calendar year is primary, and the health insurance plan of the parent whose
          birthday falls second in the calendar year is secondary.


                                                  Page 8
Utah Code


    (7)
      (a) The provisions of an order under Subsection (3)(c) shall:
        (i) take effect if at any time a child is covered by both parents' health insurance plans; and
        (ii) include the following language: "If, at any point in time, a child is covered by the health
              insurance plans of both parents, the health insurance plan of (Parent's Name) shall be
              primary coverage for the child and the health insurance plan of (Other Parent's Name)
              shall be secondary coverage for the child. If a parent remarries and the child is not covered
              by that parent's health insurance plan but is covered by a step-parent's plan, the health
              insurance plan of the step-parent shall be treated as if it is the plan of the remarried parent
              and shall retain the same designation as the primary or secondary plan of the child."
      (b) A court or administrative agency may not modify the language required by Subsection (7)(a)
           (ii).
      (c) Notwithstanding Subsection (7)(b), the court may allocate the payment of medical expenses
           including co-payments, deductibles, and co-insurance not covered by health insurance
           between the parents.
      (d) In designating primary coverage pursuant to Subsection (3)(c), the court may take into
           account:
        (i) the birth dates of the parents;
        (ii) a requirement in a court order, if any, for one of the parents to maintain health insurance
              coverage for a child;
        (iii) the parent with physical custody of the child; or
        (iv) any other factor the court considers relevant.
    (8)
      (a) The parent who provides health insurance may receive credit against the base child support
           award or recover the other parent's share of the child's portion of the premium.
      (b) If the parent does not have health insurance but another member of the parent's household
           provides health insurance for the child, the parent may receive credit against the base child
           support award or recover the other parent's share of the child's portion of the premium.
    (9)
      (a) The child's portion of the premium is a per capita share of the premium actually paid.
      (b) The premium expense for a child shall be calculated by dividing the premium amount by
           the number of persons covered under the policy and multiplying the result by the number of
           children in the instant case.
    (10)
      (a) The parent maintaining health care coverage or insurance shall provide verification of
           coverage to the other parent, or to the office under Title IV of the Social Security Act, 42
           U.S.C. Sec. 601 et seq., upon initial enrollment of the child, and after initial enrollment on or
           before January 2 of each calendar year.
      (b) The parent shall notify the other parent, or the office under Title IV of the Social Security Act,
           42 U.S.C. Sec. 601 et seq., of any change of insurance carrier, premium, or benefits within 30
           calendar days of the date the parent first knew or should have known of the change.
      (c) A parent who incurs medical expenses shall provide written verification of the cost and
           payment of medical expenses to the other parent within 30 days of payment.
      (d) The court may deny a parent incurring medical expenses the right to receive credit for the
           expenses or to recover the other parent's share of the expenses if that parent fails to comply
           with this Subsection (10).
    (11)



                                                    Page 9
Utah Code


      (a) The court or administrative agency may issue an order determining the amount of a parent's
           liability for medical expenses of a child when the parent:
        (i) is required by a prior court or administrative order to:
           (A) share those expenses with the other parent of the child; or
           (B) obtain insurance for medical expenses but fails to do so; or
        (ii) receives direct payment from an insurer under insurance coverage obtained after the prior
              court or administrative order was issued.
      (b) If the prior court or administrative order does not specify what proportions of the expenses are
           to be shared:
        (i) the court may determine the amount of liability as may be reasonable and necessary; and
        (ii) the administrative agency may determine the amount of liability in accordance with
              established rules.
      (c) This Subsection (11) applies to an order without regard to when the order was issued.

    Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-209 Requirements for a child support order regarding child care expenses -- Actual
    expenses.
    (1)
      (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the court or administrative agency shall require
           in a child support order that:
        (i) each parent share equally the reasonable work-related child care expenses of the parents;
              and
        (ii) the obligor pay a minimal child care award to the obligee if the court or administrative
              agency is entering or modifying the child support order on or after January 1, 2027.
      (b) The court or administrative agency may not order a minimal child care award under
           Subsection (1)(a)(ii) if the obligor's child support obligation is calculated using the low income
           table.
    (2)
      (a) The court or administrative agency shall presume under Subsection (1) that work-related child
           care expenses should be included in a child support order if a parent, during extended parent-
           time, is working and actually incurring expenses for child care.
      (b) The presumption under Subsection (2)(a) is rebutted if:
        (i) the obligor's base child support award, in combination with the award of medical expenses,
              exceeds 50% of the obligor's adjusted gross income; or
        (ii) by adding the child care expenses, the obligor's child support obligation would exceed 50%
              of the obligor's adjusted gross income.
    (3)
      (a) The court or administrative agency may award child care expenses on a case-by-case basis
           if the child care expenses are related to the employment and occupational training of the
           custodial parent or the child care expenses would be in the interest of justice.
      (b) The court or administrative agency may assign financial responsibility in a child support order
           for all or a portion of child care expenses incurred on behalf of a child due to the employment
           or occupational training of the custodial parent.
    (4)
      (a) The court or administrative agency may impute a monthly obligation for child care expenses
           when the court imputes income to a parent who is providing child care for the child so that the
           parties are not incurring child care expenses for the child.


                                                   Page 10
Utah Code


      (b) The court shall apply any monthly obligation imputed under Subsection (4)(a) towards any
           actual child care expenses incurred within the same month for the child.
    (5)
      (a) The court shall require each party to file a proposed minimal child care award before the court
           makes a determination under Subsection (1)(a)(ii).
      (b) To calculate a minimal child care award under Subsection (1)(a)(ii), the court or administrative
           agency shall:
        (i) use the combined adjusted average monthly gross income of the parents as calculated for
              the base child support award under Section 81-6-204; and
        (ii) locate the minimal child care award for each child in the minimal child care award table in
              Section 81-6-306 by finding:
           (A) the combined adjusted average monthly gross income in the table;
           (B) the age of the child in the table; and
           (C) combining the amounts in the table for each child to determine the minimal child care
                award.
      (c) The court or administrative agency shall presume that the amount calculated under
           Subsection (5)(b) for the minimal child care award is the amount that the obligor should pay
           under Subsection (1)(a)(ii).
      (d) The presumption described in Subsection (5)(c) is rebuttable upon:
        (i) an agreement of the parties that is acceptable to the court or administrative agency;
        (ii) the court or administrative agency determining that the evidence presented favors a different
              minimal child care award; or
        (iii) a showing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a different minimal child care award is
              in the best interest of the child.
      (e) Notwithstanding Subsection (5)(b) or (c), the court or administrative agency may set the
           minimal child care award under Subsection (1)(a)(ii) at zero dollars upon a showing, by a
           preponderance of the evidence, that child care expenses will not be incurred.
      (f) If a child is in the custody of the state and placed in a facility that is managed by the state, the
           obligor does not owe the child's portion of the minimal child care award for any month that the
           child is in the facility.
      (g) If a minimal child care award is calculated using the minimal child care award table in
           Section 81-6-306, the minimal child care award in a child support order shall be automatically
           adjusted to the appropriate amount in the minimal child care award table as the child ages
           without the need of the court or administrative agency to modify the order.
      (h) The minimal child care award for a child shall terminate at the earlier of:
        (i) the child turning 13 years old; or
        (ii) the child becoming emancipated as that term is defined in Section 81-6-213.
    (6) In the absence of a court order to the contrary, a parent who incurs a child care expense shall
        provide written verification of the expense and identity of a child care provider to the other
        parent upon initial engagement of a provider and thereafter on the request of the other parent.
    (7)
      (a) In the absence of a court order to the contrary, the parent shall notify the other parent of
           any change of a child care provider, any change in the monthly expense of child care, or the
           termination of child care within 30 calendar days after the day on which the change occurred.
      (b) The notification requirement described in Subsection (7)(a) does not apply if there is a
           protective order or stalking injunction in effect that prohibits a parent from contacting the other
           parent.



                                                    Page 11
Utah Code


    (8) The court may deny a parent incurring work-related child care expenses the right to receive
        credit for the expenses or to recover the other parent's share of the expenses if the parent
        incurring the expenses fails to comply with this section.

    Repealed and Re-enacted by Chapter 155, 2026 General Session

    81-6-210 Award of tax exemption for a child.
    (1) There is no presumption as to which parent should be awarded the right to claim a child as an
        exemption for federal and state income tax purposes.
    (2) Unless the parties otherwise stipulate in writing, the court shall award in any final order the
        exemption on a case-by-case basis.
    (3) In awarding the exemption, the court shall consider:
      (a) as the primary factor, the relative contribution of each parent to the cost of raising the child;
          and
      (b) among other factors, the relative tax benefit to each parent.
    (4)
      (a) Notwithstanding Subsection (3), the court may not award any exemption to a parent if the
          parent is not current in the parent's child support obligation.
      (b) If a parent is not current in the parent's child support obligation under Subsection (4)(a), the
          court may award an exemption to the other parent.
    (5) An exemption may not be awarded to a parent unless the award will result in a tax benefit to
        that parent.

    Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-211 Reduction for extended parent-time.
    (1) The base child support award is:
      (a) reduced by 50% for each child for time periods during which the child is with the noncustodial
           parent by order of the court or by written agreement of the parties for at least 25 of any 30
           consecutive days of extended parent-time; or
      (b) reduced by 25% for each child for time periods during which the child is with the noncustodial
           parent by order of the court or by written agreement of the parties for at least 12 of any 30
           consecutive days of extended parent-time.
    (2) If the child is a client of cash assistance provided under Title 35A, Chapter 3, Part 3, Family
        Employment Program, the administrative agency shall approve any agreement by the parties
        for reduction of child support during extended parent-time.
    (3) For purposes of this section, normal parent-time and holiday visits to the custodial parent are
        not considered extended parent-time.
    (4) For cases receiving child support services in accordance with Title 26B, Chapter 9, Recovery
        Services and Administration of Child Support, the noncustodial parent shall provide written
        documentation to the office of the extended parent-time schedule to receive the adjustment
        under Subsection (1), including the beginning and ending dates, in the form of a court order or
        a voluntary written agreement between the parties.
    (5) If the noncustodial parent complies with Subsection (4), owes no past-due support, and pays
        the full, unadjusted amount of current child support due for the month of scheduled extended
        parent-time and the following month, the office shall refund the difference from the child support
        due to the custodial parent or the state, between the full amount of current child support



                                                   Page 12
Utah Code


        received during the month of extended parent-time and the adjusted amount of current child
        support due:
      (a) from current child support received in the month following the month of scheduled extended
           parent-time; or
      (b) from current child support received in the month following the month written documentation of
           the scheduled extended parent-time is provided to the office, whichever occurs later.
    (6) If the noncustodial parent complies with Subsection (4), owes past-due support, and pays
        the full, unadjusted amount of current child support due for the month of scheduled extended
        parent-time, the office shall apply the difference, from the child support due to the custodial
        parent or the state, between the full amount of current child support received during the month
        of extended parent-time and the adjusted amount of current child support due, to the past-due
        support obligation in the case.
    (7) For cases not receiving child support services in accordance with Title 26B, Chapter 9,
        Recovery Services and Administration of Child Support, the court or the parents shall resolve,
        without involvement by the office, any potential adjustment of the child support payment during
        the month of extended visitation or any refund that is due to the noncustodial parent from the
        custodial parent.
    (8) For purposes of this section, the per child amount to which the abatement applies is calculated
        by dividing the base child support award by the number of children included in the award.
    (9) The reduction in this section does not apply to parents with joint physical custody obligations
        calculated in accordance with Section 81-6-206.

    Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-211.5 Child support orders for an incarcerated obligor -- Suspension -- Exceptions.
    (1) The office may not treat incarceration of 90 or more consecutive days as voluntary
        unemployment in establishing or modifying a child support order.
    (2)
      (a) Except as provided in Subsection (2)(c), for any period of 90 or more consecutive days of the
           obligor's incarceration, suspension of a money judgment or support order issued in this state
           for an obligor ordered to pay child support shall occur by operation of law.
      (b) For a suspension under Subsection (2)(a), the office shall:
        (i) retroactively date the period of suspension to the date on which the office notified the
              required parties of the suspension, with the eligible period beginning on the first day of the
              first full month of the date that the office provided the parties with the notification;
        (ii) issue a balance credit for any funds collected during the period of suspension, unless
              the funds have already been distributed, in which case, the funds may not be credited or
              otherwise recovered; and
        (iii) resume the obligation described in Subsection (2)(a) on the first day of the first full month
              that occurs once 90 days have passed after the day on which the obligor is released from
              incarceration.
      (c) The office may not suspend an obligation under Subsection (2)(a) if the obligor is incarcerated
           for:
        (i) criminal non-payment of a child support order; or
        (ii) an offense against the inmate's child or custodial parent of the inmate's child.
    (3) The suspension described in Subsection (2)(a) is only applicable for an obligor whose term of
        incarceration begins on or after January 1, 2027.



                                                   Page 13
Utah Code


    Enacted by Chapter 86, 2025 General Session

    81-6-212 Modification of child support order -- Adjustment of child support.
    (1) The amount of prospective child support is equal to the amount granted by a prior child support
        order unless:
      (a) there is a substantial change of circumstances on the part of the obligor or obligee as
           described in this section; or
      (b) an adjustment is made as described in this section or Section 81-6-213.
    (2) If the prior child support order contains a stipulated provision for the automatic adjustment for
        prospective child support, the prospective child support is the amount as stated in the order,
        without a showing of a substantial change of circumstances, if the stipulated provision:
      (a) is clear and unambiguous;
      (b) is self-executing;
      (c) provides for child support that equals or exceeds the base child support award required by the
           child support guidelines; and
      (d) does not allow a decrease in child support as a result of the obligor's voluntary reduction of
           income.
    (3)
      (a) A parent, legal guardian, or the office may, at any time, petition the court to adjust the amount
           of a child support order if there has been a substantial change in circumstances.
      (b) A change in the child support tables is not a substantial change in circumstances for the
           purposes of Subsection (3)(a).
      (c) For purposes of this Subsection (3)(a), a substantial change in circumstances may include:
        (i) material changes in custody;
        (ii) material changes in the relative wealth or assets of the parties;
        (iii) material changes of 30% or more in the income of a parent;
        (iv) material changes in the employment potential and ability of a parent to earn;
        (v) material changes in the medical needs of the child; or
        (vi) material changes in the legal responsibilities of either parent for the support of others.
    (4) Upon receiving a petition under Subsection (3)(a), the court shall, taking into account the best
        interests of the child:
      (a) determine whether a substantial change has occurred;
      (b) if a substantial change has occurred, determine whether the change results in a difference of
           15% or more between the obligor's ordered support amount and the obligor's support amount
           that would be required under the child support guidelines; and
      (c) adjust the obligor's ordered support amount to that which is provided for in the child support
           guidelines if:
        (i) there is a difference of 15% or more; and
        (ii) the difference is not of a temporary nature.
    (5)
      (a) If a child support order has not been issued or modified within the previous three years,
           a parent, legal guardian, or the office may move the court to adjust the amount of a child
           support order.
      (b) Upon receiving a motion under Subsection (5)(a), the court shall, taking into account the best
           interests of the child:
        (i) determine whether there is a difference between the obligor's ordered support amount and
              the obligor's support amount that would be required under the child support guidelines; and



                                                  Page 14
Utah Code


        (ii) if there is a difference as described in Subsection (5)(b)(i), adjust the obligor's ordered
              support amount to the obligor's support amount provided in the child support guidelines if:
           (A) the difference is 10% or more;
           (B) the difference is not of a temporary nature; and
           (C) the order adjusting the obligor's ordered support amount does not deviate from the child
                support guidelines.
      (c) A showing of a substantial change in circumstances is not necessary for an adjustment under
           this Subsection (5).

    Enacted by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session

    81-6-213 Automatic adjustment of base child support award.
    (1) As used in this section, "emancipated" means:
      (a) the child becomes 18 years old or graduates from high school during the child's normal and
           expected year of graduation, whichever occurs later;
      (b) the child dies, marries, or becomes a member of the armed forces of the United States;
      (c) the child is emancipated in accordance with Title 80, Chapter 7, Emancipation; or
      (d) the obligor's parental rights are terminated by a court in accordance with Title 80, Chapter 4,
           Termination and Restoration of Parental Rights.
    (2) Except as otherwise provided in the child support order, the base child support award is
        automatically adjusted to the base child support award for the remaining number of children
        due child support, without the need to modify the most recent child support order by a court,
        when a child is emancipated.
    (3) The base child support award is adjusted as described in Subsection (2) by using:
      (a) the child support table that was used to establish the most recent child support order; and
      (b) the income of the parties as specified in the most recent child support order or the
           worksheets.
    (4) The base child support award may not be reduced by a per child amount derived from the base
        child support award originally ordered.
    (5) If the incomes of the parties are not specified in the most recent child support order or the
        worksheets, the information regarding the incomes is not consistent, or the order deviates from
        the child support guidelines, the base child support award is not automatically adjusted under
        Subsection (2) and the child support order will continue until modified by the issuing tribunal.
    (6) If the child support order is deviated and the parties subsequently obtain a court order that
        adjusts the amount of child support back to the date of the emancipation of the child, the office
        may not be required to repay any difference in the child support collected during the interim.

    Amended by Chapter 155, 2026 General Session

    81-6-214 Accountability of support provided to benefit child -- Accounting.
    (1) The court or administrative agency that issues the initial or modified order for child support
        may, upon the petition of the obligor, order prospectively the obligee to furnish an accounting of
        amounts provided for the child's benefit to the obligor, including an accounting or receipts.
    (2) The court or administrative agency may prescribe the frequency and the form of the accounting,
        including receipts.
    (3) The obligor may petition for the accounting only if current on all child support that has been
        ordered.



                                                  Page 15
Utah Code


    Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 366, 2024 General Session




                                           Page 16
